actuated traffic signals and pre traffic sigals
induction loop detector
flexible, automatic adjustment according to traffic
cost
[1] Andrew P. Nichols ‘Adaptive Traffic Signal Control’ WVDOH/MPO/FHWA Planning Conference 10/3/2012.

[2] Arif A. Bookseller, Rupali R Jagtap ‘Image processing based Adaptive Traffic Control System’, Second International Conference. on Emerging Trends in Engineering (SICETE), IOSR Journal of Electronics and Communication Engineering (IOSR-JECE) , PP: 33-37.

[3] Emin Basic, Yasser De Jesus, Ashrafur Rahman ‘Adaptive Signal Control Technology: Current Practice and Comparison’, Intelligent Transportation Society of Connecticut, Student Research Project, Spring 2012.

[4] OvidiuTomescuIlonaMadalinaMoise, Alina Elena Stanciu, LulianBatros‘Adaptive Traffic Light Control System using Adhoc Vehicular Communication Networks’ U.P.B. Sci. Bull., Series D, Vol. 74, Iss. 2, 2012.

The current traffic control system (TCS) in the metro cities of India are inefficient due to randomness in the traffic density pattern throughout the day. The traffic signal timers have a fixed time period to switch traffic between different directions.
Due to this, the vehicles have to wait for a long time span even if the traffic density is very less.

The proposed system adapts the traffic signal timer according to the random traffic density using image processing techniques.

The objective is to design an intelligent traffic signal control system algorithm with the use of sensing devices and image processing systems.

Adaptive traffic light timer controller (ATLTC)

Cities that are experiencing rapid growth face a variety of challenges, as they expand and become increasingly complex. Traffic is one of the most significant challenges: congested roads are a strain on the environment, the economy and the overall quality of life. Finding smart ways to keep cities growing is crucial to our increasingly urban future.

Coordinated Signal Control
• A technique to reduce stopped delay and improve travel time
• Provides progressive green signal at consecutive intersections
when travelled at specified speed

• Increased lane carrying capacity and travel speeds
• Reduction in delay, stops, queue, fuel consumption,
emissions and drop in accident rate 
• Better Traffic Management - Green Wave Routes,
Diversions, Incidents Detection

SCOOT Delhi
ITACA Mumbai
CoSiCoSt Jaipur